78812: Notifications - Alpha Docs (#1210)
replicatedhq/replicated-docs: docs/vendor/team-management-slack-config.mdx

import NotificationsAbout from "../partials/instance-insights/_notifications-about.mdx"

# Configuring Slack Notifications (Alpha)

Vendors can set up Slack notifications, which are sent to a shared channel to get visibility about customer instance statuses. 

<NotificationsAbout/>

> Notifications settings are shared, viewable, and editable by the entire team. Any changes made by a team member impacts the team.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While email notifications are specific to each user, Slack notifications settings are shared, viewable, and editable by the entire team. Any changes made by a team member impacts the team.
```

## Limitation

> Supports only one channel per team.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While this feature is in alpha, only one slack channel per team is supported.
```

## RBAC Policies

> Role-based access control (RBAC) can be applied to Slack notifications. For more information about configuring RBAC, see [Configuring RBAC Policies](team-management-rbac-configuring).

Reviewer 2: This section looks great. We might need to confirm that RBAC is going to be part of the Alpha/Beta releases of this feature.

I have a note from our meeting with Dex on Monday that says they are not going to be available, so just wanted to confirm. (We could comment it out or keep it in a branch until it's ready to go in)

Reviewer: yeah, we should save these docs because they're great, but these RBAC resources don't exist yet.

Author: Ah, right, thanks. Pulled them out into a Gdoc. They can be added back later.

      <th width="70%">RBAC Resource Names</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Helm Charts</td>
      <td><p><a href="team-management-rbac-resource-names#teamnotificationsslackwebhookread">team/notifications/slack-webhook/read</a></p><p><a href="team-management-rbac-resource-names#teamnotificationsslackwebhookupdate">team/notifications/slack-webhook/update</a></p></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>KOTS</td>
      <td><p><a href="team-management-rbac-resource-names#kotsappappidcustomercustomeridslacknotificationsread">kots/app/[:appId]/customer/[:customerId]/slack-notifications/read</a></p><p><a href="team-management-rbac-resource-names#kotsappappidcustomercustomeridslacknotificationsread">kots/app/[:appId]/customer/[:customerId]/slack-notifications/update</a></p></td>
    </tr>
  </table>

## Prerequisite

Create a Slack webhook URL. For more information, see [Sending Messages using Incoming Webhooks](https://api.slack.com/messaging/webhooks) in the Slack API documentation.

Make sure to keep the URL secure because it contains a Secret that allows write access to one or more channels in your Slack Workspace.

## Configure the Webhook in the Vendor Portal

> When you enable Slack notifications for a team, you first configure the Slack webhook in the vendor portal. Typically you do this one time. Then you can enable notifications for the customer instances.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable Slack notifications for your team, you must first configure the Slack webhook in the vendor portal. Typically you do this one time. Then you can enable notifications for individual customer instances.
```

Author: Sticking with "configure" in the last sentence because they can change and disable the notification settings for an instance, and that topic is named "Configure" - for now anyway :)

Author: Otherwise, these were good suggestions. Thanks!

To configure Slack notifications:

1. From the **[Team vendor portal](https://vendor.replicated.com/team/members)** page, click **Slack Notifications**.

1. On the **Slack Notifications Setup** page, paste the Slack webhook URL. Click **Save**.

> 1. [Enable Slack notifications for customer instances](instance-notifications-config#configure-slack-notifications).

Reviewer 2: I think this anchor link might be broken
